Learning Lab (#81)
LIT-Protocol/docs: docs/learningLab/introToLit/intro.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 1. Intro
At its core, Lit is an attempt to decentralize [public key cryptography](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/how-does-public-key-encryption-work/). This technology underpins all of cryptocurrency and a majority of the security infrastructure on the web today. A decentralized key management network, Lit can be used in place of centralized key custodians and other key management solutions

Public key infrastructure (PKI) powers two main "buckets" of functionality: encryption and signing.

### **Encryption**

Encryption is the process of encoding information so that it remains hidden or inaccessible to unauthorized parties.

> Lit's first feature is a **decentralized access control** protocol interoperable with most EVM chains, Solana, and Cosmos. With Lit, you can use on-chain access control conditions to do 4 main things:

Reviewer: can we simplify this description? We got rid of the 'static' vs 'dynamic' distinction in a previous doc revamp, is there a reason you think this distinction is important to include here?

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 1. Intro

> At its core, Lit is an attempt to decentralize [public key cryptography](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/how-does-public-key-encryption-work/). This technology underpins all of cryptocurrency and a majority of the security infrastructure on the web today. A decentralized key management network, Lit can be used in place of centralized key custodians and other key management solutions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At its core, Lit aims to decentralize [public key cryptography](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/how-does-public-key-encryption-work/). This technology underpins all of cryptocurrency and a majority of the security infrastructure on the web today. A decentralized key management network, Lit can be used in place of centralized key custodians and other key management solutions
```

Public key infrastructure (PKI) powers two main "buckets" of functionality: encryption and programmtic signing.

### Encryption

Encryption is the process of encoding information so that it remains hidden or inaccessible to unauthorized parties.

Lit enables the client-side encryption and decryption of data by setting on or off-chain conditions, without relying on a centralized key custodian.

> Lit's **decentralized access control** feature is interoperable with most EVM chains, Solana, and Cosmos. With it you can use on-chain access control conditions to do 4 main things:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lit's **decentralized access control** feature is interoperable with most EVM chains, Solana, and Cosmos. With it you can use on-chain access control conditions to do four main things:
```

- Encrypt and lock content (images, videos, music, etc) behind an on-chain condition (for example, ownership of an NFT).
- Decrypt content that was locked behind an on-chain condition.
- Authorize network signatures that provide access to content (for example, a server or network resource) behind an on-chain condition.
- Request a network signed JWT that provisions access and authorization to content behind on-chain conditions.

### Programmatic Signing

> Lit can be used to program complex signing automations or provide seamless wallet onboarding experiences using Programmable Key Pairs (PKPs) and Lit Actions. PKPs are multi-party computation wallets generated and distributed across the Lit network, while Lit Actions are JavaScript functions dictating when, why, and what a PKP wallet will sign.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lit can be used to program complex signing automations and provide seamless wallet onboarding experiences using Programmable Key Pairs (PKPs) and Lit Actions. PKPs are multi-party computation wallets generated and distributed across the Lit network, while Lit Actions are JavaScript functions dictating when, why, and what a PKP wallet will sign.
```

> Much like in the physical world, digital signatures are used as "proof" that a particular interaction took place. For example, when you swap some tokens on a DEX you must first approve the transaction in your wallet via a signature. Unlike their physical counterparts, cryptographic signatures are tamper-proof and immutable, giving you a secure method of authentication.

Reviewer 2: `decentralized exchange` or could remove "on a DEX"

---

# 1. Intro
At its core, Lit is an attempt to decentralize [public key cryptography](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/how-does-public-key-encryption-work/). This technology underpins all of cryptocurrency and a majority of the security infrastructure on the web today. A decentralized key management network, Lit can be used in place of centralized key custodians and other key management solutions

> Public key infrastructure (PKI) powers two main "buckets" of functionality: encryption and signing.

Reviewer: perhaps adjusting the word choice here this to reflect the recent rework of the 'what is Lit page'. ('Lit provides developers with two core services: encryption and signing')
